OBSDOCS-973 - Logging 5.6.18 Release Notes (#75245)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/logging-release-notes-5-6-18.adoc

// module included in /logging/logging-5-6-release-notes
:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="logging-release-notes-5-6-18_{context}"]
= Logging 5.6.18

> This release includes link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2024:2092[OpenShift Logging Bug Fix 5.6.18]

Reviewer: Should there be a date for the release? This link doesn't work but I assume it will on the day of release. But, I don't know when that is.

Author: The link will work fine only when the errata is live. It's live now so it will work. :)

[id="logging-release-notes-5-6-18-bug-fixes"]
== Bug fixes

> * Before this update, the Elastisearch Operator `ServiceMonitor` in the `openshift-operators-redhat` namespace used static token and CA files for authentication, causing errors in the Prometheus Operator in the User Workload Monitoring spec on the `ServiceMonitor` configuration. With this update, the Elastisearch Operator `ServiceMonitor` in `openshift-operators-redhat` namespace now references a service account token secret by a `LocalReference` object. This approach allows the User Workload Monitoring spec in the Prometheus Operator to handle the Elastisearch Operator `ServiceMonitor` successfully, enabling Prometheus to scrape the Elastisearch Operator metrics. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5244[LOG-5244])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the Elastisearch Operator `ServiceMonitor` in the `openshift-operators-redhat` namespace used static token and certificate authority (CA) files for authentication, causing errors in the Prometheus Operator in the User Workload Monitoring specification on the `ServiceMonitor` configuration. With this update, the Elastisearch Operator `ServiceMonitor` in the `openshift-operators-redhat` namespace now references a service account token secret by a `LocalReference` object. This approach allows the User Workload Monitoring specifications in the Prometheus Operator to handle the Elastisearch Operator `ServiceMonitor` successfully. This enables Prometheus to scrape the Elastisearch Operator metrics. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5244[LOG-5244])
```
Not completely sure of the use of "spec" here.

> * Before this update, the {loki-op} did not validate the S3 endpoint used in the storage secret. With this update, the validation process ensures the S3 endpoint is a valid S3 URL, and the `LokiStack` status updates to indicate any invalid URLs. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5396[LOG-5396])

Reviewer: Enhancement, not bug. See comment from kabirbhartiRH.

> * Before this update, the {loki-op} did not validate the S3 endpoint used in the storage secret. With this update, the validation process ensures the S3 endpoint is a valid S3 URL, and the `LokiStack` status updates to indicate any invalid URLs. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5396[LOG-5396])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the {loki-op} did not validate the Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) endpoint used in the storage secret. With this update, the validation process ensures the S3 endpoint is a valid S3 URL, and the `LokiStack` status updates to indicate any invalid URLs. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5396[LOG-5396])
```

> * Before this update, the {loki-op} did not validate the correctness of the S3 endpoint URL format used in the storage secret. With this update, the S3 endpoint URL goes through a validation step that reflects on the status of the `LokiStack`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5400[LOG-5400])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the {loki-op} did not validate the Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) endpoint URL format used in the storage secret. With this update, the S3 endpoint URL goes through a validation step that reflects on the status of the `LokiStack`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5400[LOG-5400])
```

> * Before this update, {loki-op} set up Loki to use path-based style access for AWS S3, which has been deprecated. With this update, it defaults to virtual-host style without users needing to change their configuration. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5404[LOG-5404])

Reviewer: Enhancement, not bug. See comment from kabirbhartiRH.

> * Before this update, {loki-op} set up Loki to use path-based style access for AWS S3, which has been deprecated. With this update, it defaults to virtual-host style without users needing to change their configuration. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5404[LOG-5404])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, {loki-op} set up Loki to use path-based style access for Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3), which has been deprecated. With this update, Loki defaults to virtual-host style without users needing to change their configuration. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-5404[LOG-5404])
```
